Build overview (#14908)
docker/docker.github.io: build/hellobuild.md

## Example
Here’s a simple Dockerfile example to get you started in building an image. We’ll take a simple Hello World python flask application, and bundle it into a docker image that we can test locally or deploy anywhere!

Let’s say we have the following in a `hello.py` file in our local directory (sample A):

{% highlight python lineos %}
from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello World!"
{% endhighlight %}

Don’t worry about understanding the full example if you’re not familiar with Python - it’s just a simple web server that will contain a single page that says “Hello World”. If you’re copying or writing out the example yourself, make sure to copy over the indentation as well!

Here’s a Dockerfile that Docker Build will use to create an image for our application (sample B): 

{% highlight dockerfile lineos %}
# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1
FROM ubuntu:22.04

# install app dependencies
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y python3 python3-pip
RUN pip install flask

# install app
COPY hello.py /

# final configuration
ENV FLASK_APP=hello

>  	EXPOSE 8000

Author: The tab is there but it is not being respected, I think it was something when I pushed the branch I got a message about changing CRLFs/LFs.

CMD flask run --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
{% endhighlight %}

* Line 1 - This is our syntax directive. It pins the exact version of the dockerfile syntax we’re using. As a [best practice](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/), this should be the very first line in all our Dockerfiles as it informs Buildkit the right version of the Dockerfile to use. See also [Syntax](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#syntax).

>     > **Note:** Initiated by a # like regular comments, this line is treated as a >directive when you are using Buildkit (default), otherwise it is ignored.

Reviewer: Typo?

```suggestion
    > **Note:** Initiated by a # like regular comments, this line is treated as a directive when you are using Buildkit (default), otherwise it is ignored.
```

Author: Has to do with different wraparounds while editing the notes.

* Line 2 - Here FROM sets our base image to the 22.04 release of Ubuntu. All following instructions are executed on this base image, in this case, a Ubuntu environment. 
The notation ubuntu:22:04, follows the name:tag standard for naming Docker images. 
When you build your image you use this notation to name your images and use it to specify any existing docker image.
There are many public images you leverage in your projects. Explore [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu/?tab=tags) to find out.

> * Line 4 - Comments in dockerfiles begin with the # symbol. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **# install app dependencies** - Comments in dockerfiles begin with the # symbol. 
```

Reviewer: Maybe for now but less confusing that line numbers to me

Author: Agreed, changing for all lines in the sample.

As your Dockerfile evolves, comments can be instrumental to document how your dockerfile works for any future readers and editors of the file. See also the [FROM instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#from) page in the Dockerfile reference.

> * Line 5 - This RUN instruction executes a shell command in the build context. A build's context is the set of files located in the specified PATH or URL. In this example, our context is a full Ubuntu operating system, so we have access to its package manager, apt. The provided commands update our package lists and then, after that succeeds, installs python3 and pip, the package manager for python. See also the [RUN instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#run) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Author: No need to comment all the other lines, I think your feedback based on these two lines is understood that your feedback applies to all of them.

* Line 6 - This second RUN instruction requires that we’ve installed pip in the layer before. After applying the previous directive, we can use the pip command to install the flask web framework. This is the framework we’ve used to write our basic “Hello World” application from above, so to run it in Docker, we’ll need to make sure it’s installed.

> * Line 9 - This COPY instruction copies our `hello.py` file from the build’s context local directory into the root directory of our image. After this executes, we’ll end up with a file called `/hello.py` inside the image, with all the content of our local copy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **COPY hello.py /** - This COPY instruction copies our `hello.py` file from the build’s context local directory into the root directory of our image. After this executes, we’ll end up with a file called `/hello.py` inside the image, with all the content of our local copy. 
```

See also the [COPY instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#copy) page in the Dockerfile reference.

* Line 12 - This ENV instruction sets a linux environment variable we’ll need later. This is a flask-specific variable, that configures the command later used to run our `hello.py` application. Without this, flask wouldn’t know where to find our application to be able to run it. See also the [ENV instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#env) page in the Dockerfile reference.

> * Line 13 - This EXPOSE instruction marks that our final image has a service listening on port 8000. This isn’t required, but it is a good practice, as users and tools can use this to understand what your image does. [EXPOSE instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#expose) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **EXPOSE 8000** - This EXPOSE instruction marks that our final image has a service listening on port 8000. This isn’t required, but it is a good practice, as users and tools can use this to understand what your image does. [EXPOSE instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#expose) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

* Line14 - This CMD instruction sets the command that is run when the user starts a container based on this image. In this case we’ll start the flask development server listening on all hosts on port 8000. [CMD instruction](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#cmd) page in the Dockerfile reference.

## Test the example

> Go ahead and try this example in your local Docker installation or you can use Docker Play that provides you with a temporary Docker instance on the cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go ahead and try this example in your local Docker installation or you can use [Play with Docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com) that provides you with a temporary Docker instance on the cloud.
```

Reviewer: ^ not solved (cc @usha-mandya about Docker Play)

To test this example:
1. Create a file hello.py with the content of sample A.
2. Create a file named Dockerfile without an extension with the contents of sample B.
3. From your Docker instance build it with `docker build -t test:latest .`

    Breaking the docker build command above down:

>     `-t` - option and specifying its required paramente: name and tag of the image we’re building
>     `.` - specifying the build context as the current directory, and this where build expects to find the Dockerfile and the local files that the Dockerfile needs to access, in this case your python application.

Reviewer: Bad rendering on the website:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1951866/178791562-d0751178-6439-41b8-8bb6-aa21b0e37789.png)

Might work:

```suggestion
    * `-t` - option and specifying its required paramente: name and tag of the image we’re building
    * `.` - specifying the build context as the current directory, and this where build expects to find the Dockerfile and the local files that the Dockerfile needs to access, in this case your python application.
```

---
title: Hello Build
description: Build Hello World
keywords: build, buildx, buildkit, getting started, Dockerfile, image layers, build instructions, build context
---

## Hello Build!

It all starts with a Dockerfile.

> Dockerfiles are text files containing instructions. Dockerfiles adhere to a specific format and contain a **set of instructions** for which you can find a full reference in the [Dockerfile reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).

Reviewer 2: Could you use relative paths for links within the docs?

Author: Sure, will do.

> <br/>Docker builds images by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile.

Author: I'm avoiding a new paragraph. So it was intentional.

Docker images consist of **read-only layers**, each resulting from an instruction in the Dockerfile. Layers are stacked sequentially and each one is a delta representing the changes applied to the previous layer.

## Dockerfile basics

> The Dockerfile is a text file containing all necessary instructions needed to assemble and deploy a container image with Docker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Dockerfile is a text file containing all necessary instructions needed to assemble and deploy a container image with Docker.
```

Here are the most common types of instructions:
 

> * [**FROM \<image\>**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#from) - defines a base for your image.

Reviewer 2: Could you update these to relative links?

Author: Done.

* [**COPY \<src\> \<dest\>**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#copy) - copies new files or directories from \<src\> and adds them to the filesystem of the container at the path \<dest\>.
* [**CMD \<command\>**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#cmd) - lets you define the default program that is run once you start the container based on this image. Each Dockerfile only has one CMD, and only the last CMD instance is respected when multiple exist.
<br/>Dockerfiles are crucial inputs for image builds and can facilitate automated, multi-layer image builds based on your unique configurations. Dockerfiles can start simple and grow with your needs and support images that require complex instructions.
  
For all the possible instructions, see the [Dockerfile reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).

## Example
Here’s a simple Dockerfile example to get you started with building images. We’ll take a simple "Hello World" Python Flask application, and bundle it into a docker image that we can test locally or deploy anywhere!

**Sample A**

> <br/>Let’s say we have the following in a `hello.py` file in our local directory:

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above. Add a blank line above instead of `<br>`

{% highlight python lineos %}
from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello World!"
{% endhighlight %}

Don’t worry about understanding the full example if you’re not familiar with Python - it’s just a simple web server that will contain a single page that says “Hello World”. 

> > **Note**: If you test the example, make sure to copy over the indentation as well!

Reviewer 2: @dockertopia Could you use the standard note format?

Author: Sure, I'll reach out to you to clarify standard.

Author: Fixed the typo.

**Sample B**
<br/>Here’s a Dockerfile that Docker Build can use to create an image for our application: 

{% highlight dockerfile lineos %}
# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1
FROM ubuntu:22.04

# install app dependencies
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y python3 python3-pip
RUN pip install flask

# install app
COPY hello.py /

# final configuration
ENV FLASK_APP=hello

>     EXPOSE 8000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EXPOSE 8000
```

CMD flask run --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
{% endhighlight %}

* `# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1` 

    This is our syntax directive. It pins the exact version of the dockerfile syntax we’re using. As a [best practice](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/), this should be the very first line in all our Dockerfiles as it informs Buildkit the right version of the Dockerfile to use. 
    <br/>See also [Syntax](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#syntax).
    

>     > **Note:** Initiated by a "#" like regular comments, this line is treated as a directive when you are using BuildKit (default), otherwise it is ignored.

Reviewer 2: Update to use the standard Note format

Reviewer 2: Could you update to use the note format as below:

>**Note**
>
> text

* `FROM ubuntu:22.04`

>     Here FROM sets our base image to the 22.04 release of Ubuntu. All following instructions are executed on this base image, in this case, a Ubuntu environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `FROM` directive sets our base image to the 22.04 release of Ubuntu. All following instructions are executed on this base image, in this case, a Ubuntu environment. 
```

    The notation ubuntu:22:04, follows the name:tag standard for naming Docker images. 

>     When you build your image you use this notation to name your images and use it to specify any existing docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    When you build your image you use this notation to name your images and use it to specify any existing Docker image.
```

>     There are many public images you leverage in your projects. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    There are many public images you can leverage in your projects. 
```

---
title: Hello Build
description: Build Hello World
keywords: build, buildx, buildkit, getting started, Dockerfile, image layers, build instructions, build context
---

## Hello Build!

It all starts with a Dockerfile.

Dockerfiles are text files containing instructions. Dockerfiles adhere to a specific format and contain a **set of instructions** for which you can find a full reference in the [Dockerfile reference](../engine/reference/builder).

> <br/>Docker builds images by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile.

Author: I want to group ideas in a certain way visually. Is it OK that I level some level of discretion of what gets on the page?
Well I asked Sebastiaan how to get a line break without a paragraph, I didn't get the impression this was a problem. Maybe these kinds of unspoken rule need to be discussed once and put in a page.

> <br/>Docker builds images by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile.

Reviewer: We don't use that anywhere in markdown text in our docs. So better to be aligned I think.

Docker images consist of **read-only layers**, each resulting from an instruction in the Dockerfile. Layers are stacked sequentially and each one is a delta representing the changes applied to the previous layer.

## Dockerfile basics

A Dockerfile is a text file containing all necessary instructions needed to assemble and deploy a container image with Docker.

Here are the most common types of instructions:
 
* [**FROM \<image\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#from) - defines a base for your image.

> * [**RUN \<command\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#run) - executes any commands in a new layer on top of the current image and commits the result. <br/>RUN also has a shell form for running commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**RUN \<command\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#run) - executes any commands in a new layer on top of the current image and commits the result. RUN also has a shell form for running commands.
```

> * [**WORKDIR \<directory\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#workdir) - sets the working directory for any RUN, CMD, ENTRYPOINT, COPY and ADD instructions that follow it in the Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [**WORKDIR \<directory\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#workdir) - sets the working directory for any RUN, CMD, ENTRYPOINT, COPY, and ADD instructions that follow it in the Dockerfile.
```

* [**COPY \<src\> \<dest\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#copy) - copies new files or directories from \<src\> and adds them to the filesystem of the container at the path \<dest\>.
* [**CMD \<command\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#cmd) - lets you define the default program that is run once you start the container based on this image. Each Dockerfile only has one CMD, and only the last CMD instance is respected when multiple exist.

> <br/>Dockerfiles are crucial inputs for image builds and can facilitate automated, multi-layer image builds based on your unique configurations. Dockerfiles can start simple and grow with your needs and support images that require complex instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Dockerfiles are crucial inputs for image builds and can facilitate automated, multi-layer image builds based on your unique configurations. Dockerfiles can start simple and grow with your needs and support images that require complex instructions.
```

  
For all the possible instructions, see the [Dockerfile reference](../engine/reference/builder/).

## Example

> Here’s a simple Dockerfile example to get you started with building images. We’ll take a simple "Hello World" Python Flask application, and bundle it into a docker image that we can test locally or deploy anywhere!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here’s a simple Dockerfile example to get you started with building images. We’ll take a simple "Hello World" Python Flask application, and bundle it into a Docker image that we can test locally or deploy anywhere!
```

**Sample A**
<br/>Let’s say we have the following in a `hello.py` file in our local directory:

> {% highlight python lineos %}

Reviewer 2: Do we need another highlight format? We've previously used backticks and specified the language (```python) . CC @thaJeztah

Reviewer: `{% highlight python lineos %}` we can just use ```python yes.

This one was to try to add line numbers but it does not work atm.

from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello World!"
{% endhighlight %}

Don’t worry about understanding the full example if you’re not familiar with Python - it’s just a simple web server that will contain a single page that says “Hello World”.

> **Note:** If you test the example, make sure to copy over the indentation as well!

**Sample B**

> <br/>Here’s a Dockerfile that Docker Build can use to create an image for our application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here’s a Dockerfile that Docker Build can use to create an image for our application:
```

RUN pip install flask

# install app
COPY hello.py /

# final configuration
ENV FLASK_APP=hello
    EXPOSE 8000
CMD flask run --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
{% endhighlight %}

* `# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1` 

    This is our syntax directive. It pins the exact version of the dockerfile syntax we’re using. As a [best practice](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/), this should be the very first line in all our Dockerfiles as it informs Buildkit the right version of the Dockerfile to use. 
    <br/>See also [Syntax](../engine/reference/builder/#syntax).
    
    > **Note:** Initiated by a "#" like regular comments, this line is treated as a directive when you are using BuildKit (default), otherwise it is ignored.

* `FROM ubuntu:22.04`

    Here the `FROM` instruction sets our base image to the 22.04 release of Ubuntu. All following instructions are executed on this base image, in this case, a Ubuntu environment. 
    The notation `ubuntu:22:04`, follows the `name:tag` standard for naming docker images. 
    When you build your image you use this notation to name your images and use it to specify any existing docker image.

>     There are many public images you can leverage in your projects. <br/>Explore [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu/?tab=tags) to find out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    There are many public images you can leverage in your projects. Explore [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu/?tab=tags) to find out.
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should just link :link: to the main docker hub home page here, or some other list of official images like `https://hub.docker.com/search?image_filter=official&q=&type=image`, instead of just the Ubuntu images.

* `# install app dependencies`

>     Comments in dockerfiles begin with the # symbol. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Comments in dockerfiles begin with the `#` symbol. 
```

>     As your Dockerfile evolves, comments can be instrumental to document how your dockerfile works for any future readers and editors of the file. 
>     <br/>See also the [FROM instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#from) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As your Dockerfile evolves, comments can be instrumental to document how your dockerfile works for any future readers and editors of the file. See also the [FROM instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#from) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

* `RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y python3 python3-pip`

    This `RUN` instruction executes a shell command in the build context. A build's context is the set of files located in the specified PATH or URL. In this example, our context is a full Ubuntu operating system, so we have access to its package manager, apt. The provided commands update our package lists and then, after that succeeds, installs python3 and pip, the package manager for Python.<br/>See also the [RUN instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#run) page in the Dockerfile reference.

* `RUN pip install flask`

>     This second `RUN` instruction requires that we’ve installed pip in the layer before. After applying the previous directive, we can use the pip command to install the flask web framework. This is the framework we’ve used to write our basic “Hello World” application from above, so to run it in Docker, we’ll need to make sure it’s installed. <br/>See also the [RUN instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#run) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This second `RUN` instruction requires that we’ve installed pip in the layer before. After applying the previous directive, we can use the pip command to install the flask web framework. This is the framework we’ve used to write our basic “Hello World” application from above, so to run it in Docker, we’ll need to make sure it’s installed. See also the [RUN instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#run) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

* `COPY hello.py /`

>     This COPY instruction copies our `hello.py` file from the build’s context local directory into the root directory of our image. After this executes, we’ll end up with a file called `/hello.py` inside the image, with all the content of our local copy! <br/> See also the [COPY instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#copy) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This COPY instruction copies our `hello.py` file from the build’s context local directory into the root directory of our image. After this executes, we’ll end up with a file called `/hello.py` inside the image, with all the content of our local copy! See also the [COPY instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#copy) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

    

* `ENV FLASK_APP=hello` 

>     This ENV instruction sets a linux environment variable we’ll need later. This is a flask-specific variable, that configures the command later used to run our `hello.py` application. Without this, flask wouldn’t know where to find our application to be able to run it. <br/>See also the [ENV instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#env) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This ENV instruction sets a linux environment variable we’ll need later. This is a flask-specific variable, that configures the command later used to run our `hello.py` application. Without this, flask wouldn’t know where to find our application to be able to run it. See also the [ENV instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#env) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

>     This ENV instruction sets a linux environment variable we’ll need later. This is a flask-specific variable, that configures the command later used to run our `hello.py` application. Without this, flask wouldn’t know where to find our application to be able to run it. <br/>See also the [ENV instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#env) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This ENV instruction sets a Linux environment variable we’ll need later. This is a flask-specific variable, that configures the command later used to run our `hello.py` application. Without this, flask wouldn’t know where to find our application to be able to run it. <br/>See also the [ENV instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#env) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

* `EXPOSE 8000` 

    This EXPOSE instruction marks that our final image has a service listening on port 8000. This isn’t required, but it is a good practice, as users and tools can use this to understand what your image does. <br/>[EXPOSE instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#expose) page in the Dockerfile reference.

* `CMD flask run --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000`

>     This CMD instruction sets the command that is run when the user starts a container based on this image. In this case we’ll start the flask development server listening on all hosts on port 8000. <br/>[CMD instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#cmd) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This CMD instruction sets the command that is run when the user starts a container based on this image. In this case we’ll start the flask development server listening on all hosts on port 8000. [CMD instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#cmd) page in the Dockerfile reference.
```

## Test the example

> Go ahead and try this example in your local Docker installation or you can use Docker Play that provides you with a temporary Docker instance on the cloud.

Reviewer: https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/pull/14908#discussion_r921419044

To test this example:
1. Create a file hello.py with the content of sample A.
2. Create a file named Dockerfile without an extension with the contents of sample B.
3. From your Docker instance build it with `docker build -t test:latest .`

    Breaking down the docker build command:  
    * **`-t`** option specifies the name (required) and tag (optional) of the image we’re building.  
    * **`.`** specifies the build context as the current directory. In this example, this is where build expects to find the Dockerfile and the local files the Dockerfile needs to access, in this case your python application.
    <br/>So, in accordance with the build command issued and how build context works, your Dockerfile and python app need to be on the same directory. 

4. Run your newly built image with `docker run -p 8000:8000 test:latest` 
From your computer, open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000` or, if you’re using [Play with Docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com), click on Open Port. 

## Other resources

> If you are interested in examples in other languages, such as GO, checkout our [language-specific guides](../language/) in the Guides section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are interested in examples in other languages, such as GO, check out the [Language-specific guides](../language/) in the Guides section.
```

---
title: Hello Build
description: Build Hello World
keywords: build, buildx, buildkit, getting started, Dockerfile, image layers, build instructions, build context
---

## Hello Build!

It all starts with a Dockerfile.

Dockerfiles are text files containing instructions. Dockerfiles adhere to a specific format and contain a **set of instructions** for which you can find a full reference in the [Dockerfile reference](../engine/reference/builder).
<br/>Docker builds images by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile.

Docker images consist of **read-only layers**, each resulting from an instruction in the Dockerfile. Layers are stacked sequentially and each one is a delta representing the changes applied to the previous layer.

## Dockerfile basics

> A Dockerfile is a text file containing all necessary instructions needed to assemble and deploy a container image with Docker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Dockerfile is a text file containing all necessary instructions needed to assemble your application into a Docker container image.
```

I'd leave off the `deploy` part, deployment isn't really part of the concern for build, more for runtime.

* [**RUN \<command\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#run) - executes any commands in a new layer on top of the current image and commits the result. <br/>RUN also has a shell form for running commands.
* [**WORKDIR \<directory\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#workdir) - sets the working directory for any RUN, CMD, ENTRYPOINT, COPY and ADD instructions that follow it in the Dockerfile.
* [**COPY \<src\> \<dest\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#copy) - copies new files or directories from \<src\> and adds them to the filesystem of the container at the path \<dest\>.
* [**CMD \<command\>**](../engine/reference/builder/#cmd) - lets you define the default program that is run once you start the container based on this image. Each Dockerfile only has one CMD, and only the last CMD instance is respected when multiple exist.
<br/>Dockerfiles are crucial inputs for image builds and can facilitate automated, multi-layer image builds based on your unique configurations. Dockerfiles can start simple and grow with your needs and support images that require complex instructions.
  
For all the possible instructions, see the [Dockerfile reference](../engine/reference/builder/).

## Example

> Here’s a simple Dockerfile example to get you started with building images. We’ll take a simple "Hello World" Python Flask application, and bundle it into a docker image that we can test locally or deploy anywhere!

Reviewer 3: We should probably link :link: to where I got the hello world example from :smile: https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.1.x/quickstart/, so that users can follow through there if they want to see how the example works in more detail.

**Sample A**
<br/>Let’s say we have the following in a `hello.py` file in our local directory:

{% highlight python lineos %}
from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello World!"
{% endhighlight %}

Don’t worry about understanding the full example if you’re not familiar with Python - it’s just a simple web server that will contain a single page that says “Hello World”.

> **Note** 
>
> If you test the example, make sure to copy over the indentation as well!

**Sample B**
<br/>Here’s a Dockerfile that Docker Build can use to create an image for our application:

{% highlight dockerfile lineos %}
# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1
FROM ubuntu:22.04

# install app dependencies
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y python3 python3-pip

> RUN pip install flask

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RUN pip install flask==2.1.*
```

We should probably pin the flask version here so that these instructions should keep working even if flask makes backwards-incompatible changes. Additionally, using our own best-practices is a good idea :smile:

    
    > **Note** 
    > 
    > Initiated by a "#" like regular comments, this line is treated as a directive when you are using BuildKit (default), otherwise it is ignored.

* `FROM ubuntu:22.04`

    Here the `FROM` instruction sets our base image to the 22.04 release of Ubuntu. All following instructions are executed on this base image, in this case, a Ubuntu environment. 
    The notation `ubuntu:22:04`, follows the `name:tag` standard for naming docker images. 
    When you build your image you use this notation to name your images and use it to specify any existing docker image.
    There are many public images you can leverage in your projects. <br/>Explore [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu/?tab=tags) to find out.

* `# install app dependencies`

    Comments in dockerfiles begin with the # symbol. 
    As your Dockerfile evolves, comments can be instrumental to document how your dockerfile works for any future readers and editors of the file. 
    <br/>See also the [FROM instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#from) page in the Dockerfile reference.

* `RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y python3 python3-pip`

>     This `RUN` instruction executes a shell command in the build context. A build's context is the set of files located in the specified PATH or URL. In this example, our context is a full Ubuntu operating system, so we have access to its package manager, apt. The provided commands update our package lists and then, after that succeeds, installs python3 and pip, the package manager for Python.<br/>See also the [RUN instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#run) page in the Dockerfile reference.

Reviewer 3: I don't think it's clear in the above where the `PATH` and `URL` come from. I'm also not sure about using the phrase buildx context to describe what's going on here is right - I think we try and use that for the inputs to the build. @crazy-max can correct me if I'm wrong.

* `EXPOSE 8000` 

    This EXPOSE instruction marks that our final image has a service listening on port 8000. This isn’t required, but it is a good practice, as users and tools can use this to understand what your image does. <br/>[EXPOSE instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#expose) page in the Dockerfile reference.

* `CMD flask run --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000`

    This CMD instruction sets the command that is run when the user starts a container based on this image. In this case we’ll start the flask development server listening on all hosts on port 8000. <br/>[CMD instruction](../engine/reference/builder/#cmd) page in the Dockerfile reference.

## Test the example

Go ahead and try this example in your local Docker installation or you can use Docker Play that provides you with a temporary Docker instance on the cloud.

To test this example:
1. Create a file hello.py with the content of sample A.
2. Create a file named Dockerfile without an extension with the contents of sample B.
3. From your Docker instance build it with `docker build -t test:latest .`

    Breaking down the docker build command:  

>     * **`-t`** option specifies the name (required) and tag (optional) of the image we’re building.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * **`-t test:latest`** option specifies the name (required) and tag (optional) of the image we’re building.  
```
Think it reads easier if we group the flag with it's argument to clarify how they're connected together.
